# ELEN E6883: Introduction to Blockchain Technology

# Homework 2

<div align = "center"><font size = 5> Tong Wu, tw2906 <div>

## Problem 1

GASLIMIT is the actual amount of gas spent at the completion of the Block creation.

False

The Ethereum Accounts can send transactions for ether transfer or they can send transactions to invoke a smart contract code

True

Ethereum full node hosts the software needed for transaction initiation, validation, mining, block creation, and smart contract execution.

True

Miner nodes receive, verify, gather and execute transactions.

True

A Smart Contract is a piece of code deployed in the Blockchain node. Execution of a smart contract is initiated by a message embedded in a transaction.

True

## Problem 2

In Bitcoin, the standard practice for a merchant is to wait for n confirmations of the paying transaction before providing the product. While the network is finding these confirming blocks, the attacker is building his own branch which contradicts it. When attempting a double-spend, the attacker finds himself in the following situation. The network currently knows a branch crediting the merchant, which has n blocks on top of the one in which the fork started. The attacker has a branch with only m additional blocks, and both are trying to extend their respective branches. Assume them honest network and the attacker has a proportion of p and q of the total network hash power, respectively.

### Section 1

Let $a_z$ denote the probability that the attacker will be able to catch up when he is currently z blocks behind. Find out the closed form for $a_z$ with respect to p, q and z. Detailed analysis is needed. (Hint: $a_z$ satisfies the recurrence relation $a_z= pa_z+1 + qa_z−1$.)

**Answer**: According to the hint, $a_z$ satisfies the recurrence relation $a_z=pa_{z+1}+qa_{a-1}$, reform the equation in terms of $a_z-a_{z-1}$:
$$
\begin{aligned}
a_z-a_{z-1}&=(\frac qp)^{z-1}(a_1-a_0)+a_0 \\
a_z&=\sum_{i=0}^{z-1}(\frac qp)^{z-1}(a_1-a_0)+a_0 \\
\end{aligned}
$$
Where the $a_0$ should be 1 in this case since the attacker has the same block as the chain (p=q):
$$
\begin{aligned}
a_z&=\sum_{i=0}^{z-1}(\frac qp)^{z-1}(a_1-a_0) \\
&=\sum_{i=0}^{z-1}(\frac qp)^{z-1}(a_1-1)+1 \\
&=(a_1-1)\frac{1-(\frac qp)^z} {1-\frac qp} +1 \\
&=a_1z-k+1 \\
\text{Assume } z\to \infty, \ a_z=0: \\
\lim_{z\to\infty}(a_1-1)\frac{1-(\frac qp)^z} {1-\frac qp}+1 &=0 \\
a_1 &= 1- \frac{1-\frac qp}{1-(\frac qp)^z} \\
a_z&=
\begin{cases}
(\frac qp)^z, & \text{p > q} \\[5ex]
1, & \text{otherwise}
\end{cases}
\end{aligned}
$$

### Section 2

Compared with the Bitcoin white paper, we model m more accurately as a negative binomial variable. m is the number of successes (blocks found by the attacker) before n failures (blocks found by the honest network), with a probability q of success. Show that the probability for a given value m is $P (m) = ((m+n−1)Cm )p^nq^m$.

**Answer**: Since that the equation of the probability of an event with $m$ time successes and $n$ times of failures can be written as:
$$
P = q^mp^n
$$
In the trail, the last trail must be failure so the last successes is coming before the last failure, so there should be total $m+n+1$ trails. Hence, it can be written as:
$$
P(m)={m+n+1 \choose m}q^mp^n
$$

<div STYLE="page-break-after: always;"></div>

## Problem 3

Suppose a mining pool wants to blacklist transactions from address X. In other words, they want to freeze the money held by that address, making it unspendable.

### Section 1

The mining pool announces that they will refuse to work on a chain containing a transaction originating from address X. Explain why this strategy can guarantee that the blacklisted transactions will never be published if the mining pool has the majority of the hash power.

**Answer**: If a transaction from address X is included from the miner, then the pool will fork since the pool has the most of the hash power, which will create a longer chain in order to invalidates the chains contains the transaction from the address X. Hence, the miner will be informed that this block will be invalidated.

### Section 2

The mining pool announces that they will attempt to fork if they see a block that has a transaction from address X, but they will give up after the transaction from address X has k confirmations. The success of this attack depends entirely on the motivation of other miners to join the attacker. If a miner includes a transaction from address X in his block, he will receive block reward plus transaction fee from address X. Otherwise, the miner only receives block reward. Suppose the attacker controls q = 20% of the network hash power. Let k = 2 and block reward be 12.5 BTC ≈$48, 550. What is the minimum transaction fee address X has to pay in order to avoid being blacklisted? (Hint: first find out the probability that the attacker successfully prunes the block containing a transaction from address X.)

**Answer**: The probability that the attacker successfully build the block is $q^2$. Hence, in order to avoid attacking, the payment amount should be:
$$
(1-q^2)(\text{transaction fee} + \text{reward})
$$
Where the total amount should be greater than the block reward, hence:
$$
\begin{aligned}
(1-q^2)(\text{transaction fee} + \text{reward}) &\ge \text{reward} \\
\text{transaction fee} & \ge \frac {\text{reward}} {1-0.2^2} \\
\text{transaction fee} &\ge \frac {12.5} {0.96} - 12.5 \\
\text{transaction fee} &\ge 0.5208 \text{ BTC}
\end{aligned}
$$

<div STYLE="page-break-after: always;"></div>

## Problem 4

### Section 1

Describe all events that cause each transition in the state transition diagram in Lecture 3, Slide 35

| Begin | End  | Probability            | Event                                                        |
| ----- | ---- | ---------------------- | ------------------------------------------------------------ |
| 0’    | 0    | $(1-\gamma)(1-\alpha)$ | Honest miner mines a block on the main branch                |
| 0’    | 0    | $\gamma(1-\alpha)$     | Honest miner mines a block on the selfish miner’s block      |
| 0’    | 0    | $\alpha$               | Selfish miner mines a block on the private branch            |
| 0     | 0    | $1-\alpha$             | Honest miner mines a block                                   |
| 1     | 0’   | $1-\alpha$             | Honest miner mines a block on the main branch, selfish miner<br />publishes the private branch containing one block |
| 2     | 0    | $1-\alpha$             | Honest miner mines a block on the main branch, selfish miner<br />publishes the private branch containing two blocks |
| n     | n+1  | $\alpha$               | Selfish miner mines a block on the private branch            |
| n     | n-1  | $1-\alpha$             | Honest miner mines a block on the main branch                |

### Section 2

At which transitions in the state transition diagram in Lecture 3, Slide 35, the honest miners would earn the block reward, and how many?

| Begin | End  | Probability            | Reward |
| ----- | ---- | ---------------------- | ------ |
| 0’    | 0    | $(1-\gamma)(1-\alpha)$ | 2      |
| 0’    | 0    | $\gamma(1-\alpha)$     | 1      |
| 0     | 0    | $1-\alpha$             | 1      |

